---
title: The map shows why you might never get a room in Chelsea
updated: 2015-12-10
---
{% include lontoo.html %}

### The difference between average prices of rooms to rent and average budget of potential roomseekers might be hundreds of pounds in certain parts of London. 

Where is it afforable to live in the city? What are the most wanted areas by room seekers? In which parts of London the ratio of available rooms to room hunters is most favourable to find a place to live?

Our map shows how unevenly the available rooms are spread and how wide is the gap between available rooms and room seekers. 

The data was extracted from [Spareroom](http://www.spareroom.co.uk) in November 13th 2015 using programming language python. It has tens of thousands of ads of both available rooms and room seekers. Spareroom is the UK's biggest flatshare site. 

The data shows for example that basically in all south west London districts the median room price is beyond the median budget of flatseekers.

The data has few limitations. 

First of all, most of the room seekers showed interest in many areas. That means, while they did pick for example "West End / Soho" as a potential place to live, that does not necessarily mean they had serious or realistic intention to find an apartment there. 

Secondly, some business areas (such as St. Pauls, Bishopsgate) had too little available rooms to make for statistically significant information.

Thirdly, the median prices and median budgets in each area are not necessarily calculated from the whole population but from a sample of 1.000 ads per each area selected by the service. We had no power over the selection due to restriction of information by the Spareroom site: only 1.000 ads per each district could be retrieved.

#### Tools used: Scraping with Python, Data refining with Excel's pivot table, map with SVG & CSS, tooltip with D3JS.